# Drug-Consumption-Analysis
Drug Consumption Dataset
Data Plan
The team will use a comprehensive outline for the approach and methodology involved in collecting, processing, cleaning, transforming, analyzing and presenting data to ensure that the project is well organized, transparent and reproducible, using the steps involved in the process of Data Analytics as an outline. 
Data collection: The data was obtained from the UCI Machine Learning Repository at: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Drug+consumption+%28quantified%29. The data was collected through a survey where participants were asked to provide information about their personality, demographic information, and drug use habits. 
Data processing: For the data processing stage, we decided to improve the quality of the data we were working with and convert all categorical variables to numerical variables that made it easier to work with the data. The data was extracted in a form where the datasets were already quantified, which made the processes easier.
Data cleaning/integration: We found no missing values in this data set.  The fake drug, “Semeron” was removed from the data set. We also wanted to remove Chocolate and Caffeine, but decided to keep them and find any possible relationship between them and other attributes.
Data exploration: Several graphs and matrices were made to determine significant relations between different attributes. The main focus was on demographic and personality traits attributes. 
Learning the application domain: Learning the application domain involves gaining a deep understanding of the drug use context in which the data analysis is being conducted. No one on the team is familiar with any of these drugs as well as the individual personality traits. We had to understand them to make it easier to work with our data.
Modeling or Extracting patterns/knowledge: Once the data has been cleaned, processed, and explored, the next step is to develop machine learning models to predict the relationship between the likelihood of drug addiction among all other factors. This may involve using techniques such as bayes classifier, decision trees, random forests to extract patterns or knowledge from the data. Models will also be compared to identify the best performing model.
Model evaluation: Model evaluation involves assessing the performance of the machine learning models developed in step 6. We will data into training and test sets, and evaluate the model's accuracy, precision, recall, and other metrics. We will use model evaluation to compare the performance of the model we have chosen to identify the best-performing model. For now the team is looking at decision trees and bayes classifier models.
Knowledge presentation: In this final step, we will present the results of the data analysis in a way that is easily understandable through creating data visualizations, dashboards, or reports that summarize the key findings of the analysis
